# Cross-Chain BLS Signature Verification dApp (Part 2)

### Part 2: Creating a Signature Verification Precompile Contract

Precompiled contracts are a way to execute code written in the low-level coding language Go from the EVM. Go is much faster and more efficient than Solidity. If you are familiar with Python programming, you might be familiar with a similar concept. Many Python functions and libraries are written in the programming language C, since it is much more efficient than Python.

### Goal:

The task here is to write a precompile that can verify a BLS signature for a message and a BLS Public Key.

Part 1 of this assessment is located here: [Create a Cross-Chain dApp with Verification](https://github.com/dianalokada/avalanche-starter-kit).

## Learn about Precompile-EVM

To get a comprehensive introduction to Precompile-EVM, take the Avalanche Academy course on [Customizing the EVM](https://academy.avax.com/course/customize-evm).

# Precompile-EVM

Precompile-EVM is a repository for registering precompiles to Subnet-EVM without forking the Subnet-EVM codebase. Subnet-EVM supports registering external precompiles through `precompile/modules` package. By importing Subnet-EVM as a library, you can register your own precompiles to Subnet-EVM and build it together with Subnet-EVM.

## Environment Setup

To effectively build, run, and test Precompile-EVM, the following is a (non-exhaustive) list of dependencies that you will need:

- Golang
- Node.js
- [AvalancheGo](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanchego)
- [Avalanche Network Runner](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-network-runner)

To get started easily, we provide a Dev Container specification, that can be used using GitHub Codespace or locally using Docker and VS Code. DevContainers are a concept that utilizes containerization (via Docker containers) to create consistent and isolated development environment. We can access this environment through VS code, which allows for the development experience to feel as if you were developing locally..

### Dev Container in Codespace

Codespaces is a development environment service offered by GitHub that allows developers to write, run, test, and debug their code directly on a cloud machine provided by GitHub. The developer can edit the code through a VS Code running in the browser or locally.

To run a Codespace click on the **Code** and switch to the **Codespaces** tab. There, click **Create Codespace on branch [...]**.

### Local Dev Container

In order to run the Dev Container locally:

- Install VS Code, Docker and the [Dev Container Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
- Clone the Repository
- Open the Container by issuing the Command "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container" in the VS Code command palette (on Mac-OS, run [Cmd + Shift + P]).

## How to use

There is an example branch [hello-world-example](https://github.com/ava-labs/precompile-evm/tree/hello-world-example) in this repository. You can check the example branch to see how to register precompiles and test them.

### Generate Precompile Files

First, you need to create your precompile contract interface in the `contracts` directory and build the ABI. Then you can generate your precompile files with `./scripts/generate_precompile.sh --abi {abiPath} --out {outPath}`. This script installs the `precompilegen` tool from Subnet-EVM and runs it to generate your precompile.

### Register Precompile

In `plugin/main.go` Subnet-EVM is already imported and ready to be Run from the main package. All you need to do is explicitly register your precompiles to Subnet-EVM in `plugin/main.go` and build it together with Subnet-EVM. Precompiles generated by `precompilegen` tool have a self-registering mechanism in their `module.go/init()` function. All you need to do is to force-import your precompile packprecompile package in `plugin/main.go`.

### Build

You can build your precompile and Subnet-EVM with `./scripts/build.sh`. This script builds Subnet-EVM, and your precompile together and generates a binary file. The binary file is compatible with AvalancheGo plugins.

### Test

You can run the test by running the following command from the project root: `./scripts/build_test.sh`

## Launch Avalanche-Network-Runner
To create a blockchain from our genesis block, we need to start a local Avalanche network using the Avalanche Network Runner.

Let's start the gRPC server, which will manage the Avalanche nodes for us, so we do not have to build the network manually.

```bash
avalanche-network-runner server \
--log-level debug \
--port=":8080" \
--grpc-gateway-port=":8081"
```

## Start an Avalanche Network with a New Blockchain

Open up a new terminal and issue the following command:

```bash
  avalanche-network-runner control start \
  --log-level debug \
  --endpoint="0.0.0.0:8080" \
  --number-of-nodes=5 \
  --blockchain-specs '[{"vm_name": "subnetevm", "genesis": "./tests/precompile/genesis/evm-configuration-genesis.json"}]'
```

## Changing Versions

In order to upgrade the Subnet-EVM version, you need to change the version in `go.mod` and `scripts/versions.sh`. You can also change the AvalancheGo version through `scripts/versions.sh` as well. Then you can run `./scripts/build.sh` to build the plugin with the new version.

## AvalancheGo Compatibility

```text
[v0.1.0-v0.1.1] AvalancheGo@v1.10.1-v1.10.4 (Protocol Version: 26)
[v0.1.2] AvalancheGo@v1.10.5-v1.10.8 (Protocol Version: 27)
[v0.1.3] AvalancheGo@v1.10.9-v1.10.11 (Protocol Version: 28)
[v0.1.4] AvalancheGo@v1.10.9-v1.10.11 (Protocol Version: 28)
```
